The 2000s were for the most part dominated by the same musical styles that dominated the 1990s. Unlike many past decades, the 2000s did not see the creation or emergence of many styles, with the exception of a few indie-related genres such as emo.[1]
Despite the hip hop dominance which lasted for the decade,[2] rock music was still popular, notably alternative rock, and especially genres such as post-grunge, post-Britpop, nu metal, pop punk, emo, post-hardcore, metalcore and indie rock; the decade also saw the garage rock and post punk revival.
Despite a slight slip of popularity in the early part of the decade, adult contemporary and country music were still able to find success throughout the 2000s.
Electronic music was also highly popular throughout the decade; at the beginning of the 2000s, genres such as trance, chillout, house, indietronica,[3] and Eurodance (in Europe) were popular, yet, by the end of the decade, dance-oriented forms of electronic music, such as synthpop, electropop, nu-disco and electro house had become popular.
By the end of the decade, a fusion between hip hop and electronic dance similar to the Freestyle music of the late 1980s and early '90s, known as Hip House also grew successful.[4] In general, pop became more commercially successful than all other forms of popular music by the late 2000s due to recession.[5]
In Asia and Far Eastern musical markets, with the increase of globalization and the spread of capitalism, music became more Westernised, with influences of pop, hip hop and contemporary R&B becoming ever–present in Eastern markets.
American and European popular music became more popular in Asia.
Genres such as J-Pop and K-Pop remained popular throughout the decade. In other parts of Asia, including India, Indian pop music, closely linked to Bollywood films and filmi music, was popular alongside Western pop music.
In Latin America, whilst R&B, hip hop and pop rock did have influence and success, Latin-based pop music remained highly popular.
Reggaeton became a definitive genre in 2000s Latin music, as well as salsa and merengue. Subgenres fusing Latin music such as merengue and reggaeton with hip hop and rap music became popular from the middle of the decade onwards.
The Internet allowed unprecedented access to music and allowed artists to distribute music freely without label backing.[6] Innumerable online outlets and sheer volume of music has resulted in a culture of many niches. [1][6]